{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red207\green207\blue194;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c84706\c84706\c80392;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Atticus was feeb'e: he was near'y fifty. When Jem and I asked him why he was so o'd, he said he got started 'ate, which we fe't ref'ected upon his abi'ities and man'iness. He was much o'der than the parents of our schoo' contemporaries, and there was nothing Jem or I cou'd say about him when our c'assmates said, \'91My father \'96 \'92\
Jem was footba' crazy. Atticus was never too tired to p'ay keep-away, but when Jem wanted to tack'e him Atticus wou'd say, \'91I\'92m too o'd for that, son.\'92\
Our father didn\'92t do anything. He worked in an office, not in a drugstore. Atticus did not drive a dump-truck for the county, he was not the sheriff, he did not farm, work in a garage, or do anything that cou'd possib'y arouse the admiration of anyone.\
Besides that, he wore g'asses. He was near'y b'ind in his 'eft eye, and said 'eft eyes were the triba' curse of the Finches. Whenever he wanted to see something we', he turned his head and 'ooked from his right eye.\
He did not do the things our schoo'mates\'92 fathers did; he never went hunting, he did not p'ay poker or fish or drink or smoke. He sat in the 'iving-room and read.\
With these attributes, however, he wou'd not remain as inconspicuous as we wished him to; that year, the schoo' buzzed with ta'k about him defending Tom Robinson, none of which was comp'imentary. After my bout with Ceci' Jacobs when I committed myse'f to a po'icy of cowardice, word got around that Scout Finch wou'dn\'92t fight any more, her daddy wou'dn\'92t 'et her. This was not entire'y correct: I wou'dn\'92t fight pub'ic'y for Atticus, but the fami'y was private ground. I wou'd fight anyone from a third cousin upwards tooth and nai'. Francis Hancock, for examp'e, knew that.\
When he gave us our air-rif'es Atticus wou'dn\'92t teach us to shoot. Unc'e Jack instructed us in the rudiments thereof; he said Atticus wasn\'92t interested in guns, Atticus said to Jem one day, \'91I\'92d rather you shot at tin cans in the back yard, but I know you\'92' go after birds. Shoot a' the b'uejays you want, if you can hit \'91em, but remember it\'92s a sin to ki' a mockingbird.\'92\
That was the on'y time I heard Atticus say it was a sin to do something, and I asked Miss Maudie about it.\
\'91Your father\'92s right,\'92 she said. \'91Mockingbirds don\'92t do one thing but make music for us to enjoy. They don\'92t eat up peop'e\'92s gardens, don\'92t nest in corncribs, they don\'92t do one thing but sing their hearts out for us. That\'92s why it\'92s a sin to ki' a mockingbird.\'92}