{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red207\green207\blue194;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c84706\c84706\c80392;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 Atticus was feeble: he was nearly fifty. When Jem and I asked him why he was so old, he said he got started late, which we felt reflected upon his abilities and manliness. He was much older than the parents of our school contemporaries, and there was nothing Jem or I could say about him when our classmates said, \'91My father \'96 \'92\
Jem was football crazy. Atticus was never too tired to play keep-away, but when Jem wanted to tackle him Atticus would say, \'91I\'92m too old for that, son.\'92\
Our father didn\'92t do anything. He worked in an office, not in a drugstore. Atticus did not drive a dump-truck for the county, he was not the sheriff, he did not farm, work in a garage, or do anything that could possibly arouse the admiration of anyone.\
Besides that, he wore glasses. He was nearly blind in his left eye, and said left eyes were the tribal curse of the Finches. Whenever he wanted to see something well, he turned his head and looked from his right eye.\
He did not do the things our schoolmates\'92 fathers did; he never went hunting, he did not play poker or fish or drink or smoke. He sat in the living-room and read.\
With these attributes, however, he would not remain as inconspicuous as we wished him to; that year, the school buzzed with talk about him defending Tom Robinson, none of which was complimentary. After my bout with Cecil Jacobs when I committed myself to a policy of cowardice, word got around that Scout Finch wouldn\'92t fight any more, her daddy wouldn\'92t let her. This was not entirely correct: I wouldn\'92t fight publicly for Atticus, but the family was private ground. I would fight anyone from a third cousin upwards tooth and nail. Francis Hancock, for example, knew that.\
When he gave us our air-rifles Atticus wouldn\'92t teach us to shoot. Uncle Jack instructed us in the rudiments thereof; he said Atticus wasn\'92t interested in guns, Atticus said to Jem one day, \'91I\'92d rather you shot at tin cans in the back yard, but I know you\'92ll go after birds. Shoot all the bluejays you want, if you can hit \'91em, but remember it\'92s a sin to kill a mockingbird.\'92\
That was the only time I heard Atticus say it was a sin to do something, and I asked Miss Maudie about it.\
\'91Your father\'92s right,\'92 she said. \'91Mockingbirds don\'92t do one thing but make music for us to enjoy. They don\'92t eat up people\'92s gardens, don\'92t nest in corncribs, they don\'92t do one thing but sing their hearts out for us. That\'92s why it\'92s a sin to kill a mockingbird.\'92}